# ChiPhiEpsFunc API

As introduced in [data structure](data-structure.md), `ChiPhiEpsFunc` is a list-like class containing scalars and `ChiPhiFunc`'s. It is the primary data structure pyAQSC stores results in. 

`ChiPhiEpsFunc` manages the power-Fourier series:
$$
F(\psi, \chi, \phi)\\
=\sum_{n=0}^{n_{max}}\epsilon^nF_n(\chi,\phi) (\epsilon\equiv\sqrt{\psi})\\
=\sum_{n=0}^{n_{max}}\epsilon^n\sum_{m=0|1}^n e^{im} F_{n,m}(\phi) + e^{-im} F_{n,-m}(\phi).
$$

## Class attributes
### `self.chiphifunc_list : int` (list of traced)
The list containing all power coefficients. A power coefficient can be a scalar or a `ChiPhiFunc.`
### `self.nfp : int` (static)
Required number of field period of the `ChiPhiFunc`'s in `self.chiphifunc_list`.

`ChiPhiEpsFunc` supports `__getitem__` and `append`, but **not** `__setitem__`. `ChiPhiEpsFunc[n]` Extracts the $n$-th order power coefficient, which may be a scalar or a `ChiPhiFunc`.

## Constructor
`aqsc.ChiPhiEpsFunc(self, list:list, nfp:int, check_consistency:bool=False)`
Parameters:
- `chiphifunc_list : list` (list of traced) - The list containing all power coefficients. A power coefficient can be a scalar or a `ChiPhiFunc.`
- `nfp : int` (static) - Required number of field period of the `ChiPhiFunc`'s in `self.chiphifunc_list`.
- `check_consistency : bool` - Runs `aqsc.ChiPhiEpsFunc.check_nfp_consistency()` if set to `True`. The method checks for items with inconsistent `nfp` and replaes them with `ChiPhiFunc(nfp=-14)`.

## Functions

### `aqsc.ChiPhiEpsFunc.__getitem__(self, index)`

Implements `ChiPhiEpsFunc[n]`. Finds the $n$-th order power coefficient. Returns `ChiPhiFunc(nfp=0)` for negative or out-of-bound `index`.

Parameters:
- `index : int` (static) - index of item. 

Returns:
- A `ChiPhiFunc` or a scalar.

### `aqsc.ChiPhiEpsFunc.append(item)`
Returns a new ChiPhiEpsFunc with a new item appended to the end. Checks consistency. Does not modify `self`. Returns a new `ChiPhiEpsFunc`.

Parameters:
- `item` (traced) - Power coefficient to append.

Returns: 
- A new `ChiPhiEpsFunc`.

        
### `aqsc.ChiPhiEpsFunc.zero_append(n=1)`
Appends one or more `ChiPhiFunc(nfp=0)` at the end of `self`. Does not modify `self`. Returns a new `ChiPhiEpsFunc`.

Parameters:
- `n : int` (static) - Number of zeros to add.

Returns: 
- A new `ChiPhiEpsFunc`.

    @partial(jit, static_argnums=(1,))
### `aqsc.ChiPhiEpsFunc.mask(n)`
Produces a `ChiPhiEpsFunc` from self containing power coefficients up to order $n$. When $n$ is lower than the highest currently known order, returns a `ChiPhiEpsFunc` containing a sublist of `self.chiphifunc_list`. When $n$ is higher than the highest currently known order, fill in the unknown elements with `ChiPhiFunc(nfp=0)`. 

Does not modify `self`. Returns a new `ChiPhiEpsFunc`.

Parameters:
- `n : int` (static) - Maximum order to extract.

Returns: 
- A new `ChiPhiEpsFunc`.

### `aqsc.ChiPhiEpsFunc.get_order()`
Returns the highest known order $n$ for a `ChiPhiEpsFunc`. Equivalent to `len(self.chiphifunc_list)`.

Returns:
- `n : int` - The highest known order $n$.

### `aqsc.ChiPhiEpsFunc.zeros_like(other)`
Produces a `ChiPhiFunc(nfp=0)`-filled ChiPhiEpsFunc with the same $n$ as another `ChiPhiEpsFunc`.

Returns:
- A `ChiPhiEpsFunc`.

### `aqsc.ChiPhiEpsFunc.__str__(self)`
Overrides str(aqsc.ChiPhiEpsFunc). Produces a string summarizing all elements in `self.chiphifunc_list`.

### `aqsc.ChiPhiEpsFunc.to_content_list()`
Converts a ChiPhiEpsFunc to a list of `int`'s, `array`'s and `string`'s that can be saved and loaded by `np.save()`. For `aqsc.Equilibrium.save(file_name)`.

### `aqsc.ChiPhiEpsFunc.from_content_list(content_list, nfp)` 
Loads a ChiPhiEpsFunc from a list of `int`'s, `array`'s and `string`'s generated by `aqsc.ChiPhiEpsFunc.to_content_list()`. For `aqsc.Equilibrium.load(file_name)`.